
5.	Discuss your specific career objectives (both short term and long term). How do you expect your MS degree will enhance your career objectives? (300 words)
Determination is an integral part of my character, which helps me in reaching my goals , as each and every time I take up something new , I am determined in my success . This very trait of my character identifies me as a personality, and I am very much convinced that I would not have achieved everything I have now without it.
I have always tried to set clear targets and reach them whatever happens .At the moment despite the fact that I am fully indulged in my job as an oracle DBA , I find time and strength to start up new activities and reach new goals. One of my short term goal is to get an insight into the world of analytics. I have already started working towards the attainment of this goal as I have completed a BA foundation certification. I have attended organization internal trainings for big data and Hadoop which provided brief about R, Hadoop and python. Also I have attended an online training conducted by Oracle University on Oracle Big data overview. Now I aspire to do my masters in data science and analytics. I am convinced that the best source of investment is knowledge. Taking into account that now more data is being collected and at a faster rate, and we finally have the ability to do something with it, I want to learn how it is done.
When it comes to long term goal, I want to establish myself as a data scientist. Big data has the potential to be mashed into data sets to understand customers much better than relying on those unscientific experts who make a best guess on hunches and past experience. And it turns out those big businesses needs big data. I want to impact the businesses positively using my data analysis, modeling and prototyping skills that I will gather after achieving my short term goal. As has already been mentioned, I am extremely determined person, I do set clear targets and I am convinced that whatever happens, I will do my best to succeed.
6.	Give an example of a situation or an action that demonstrates your potential for success in a professional environment (e.g. communication skills, entrepreneurial interests, leadership ability, etc.). Preferably describe leadership activity. (300 words)
	=> completed project in AI with four classmates.
	=>Publish research paper with 3 other classmates titled as "contemplation of machine learning algorithm under distinct datasets".
	=>Publish research paper with 4 other classmates titled as "student performance prediction by using hybrid model of Multi layer perceptron and Random forest".
	
7.	Describe relevant and distinct professional or academic achievements. (Write in bullet points)
	=> Achieved an ELITE certification in NPTEL prgramming,Data structure through c.
	=> Achieved an ELITE certification in NPTEL DBMS.
        => Achieved an ELITE certification in NPTEL Design and analysis of Algorithm.
	=>Selected in top 3 in Big data workshop to present the final project at IIT kharagpur.
	=>Published 2 papers in IEEE conference held in College.
8.	Any specific community or social services you have done or extracurricular activities that you have undertaken. . (Write in bullet points)
•	Represented my school in national children science congress for soil development.
•	Part of the scout while being in school.
•	Part of the band group in school.
•	Part of the quest and nature club in college and attended several workshop for wildlife conservation hosted by WWF.
•	Have done minor business of installing a cusine stall during the college fest
•	Have been associated with a NGO RAHAT which provide funding to Orphanage students.

9.	How will your presence in the class benefit the other students in the program? (250 words)
I have learnt lot of things working as a professional, technically as well as personally. Being a professional means much more than wearing a coat and tie or possessing a college degree. The characteristics that I have inculcated in me are reliability, competency, learn to maintain poise even under difficult situations, organizational skills and accountability. I hope these qualities will help in adding value to my student community. Also I have learnt to respect diversity and have developed collaboration skills which will help me and my classmates to get along well and will make our learning experience more fruitful and enjoyable. Technically, I can share my experience as a engineering student with my fellow mates and in case of working projects it will help in resolving the backend issues.
I am very inquisitive in nature. My curiosity about people and the world around me makes me take interest in what someone has to say. I like to have interactive class sessions which will help other students to learn new concepts and ideas from the questions that I have raised.
Also I have functional knowledge of few domains I have worked in, including finance, telecom and resources. I have an insight into how these industries work which I can share with my classmates.
I have always been active in extracurricular activities be it music or sports. I will be an active participator and my involvement with all the class members will help in team building, will increase morale and our productivity.
10.	 Feel free to mention any incident/any turning point in your life/career. (300-500 words)
There have been a lot of these points in my life but I would like to mention few of them. Back in school days, i failed one of my school tests in fourth standard. I use to be among the toppers in class and failing was like a nightmare for me. It happened because I was going through an emotional turmoil because of my grandfather’s demise with whom I was very attached. This incident gave a blow to my confidence, and I started fearing failing every exam I would appear. There I got a golden advice from my father that yesterdays is not ours to recover but tomorrow is ours to win or lose. And I was then back in toppers list in my fourth standard final exam.
Another turning point in my life was when I was selected in all the 3 companies that have come to our college for campus recruitment on day 1. It has given me the confidence that apart from academics, I can do well professionally as well.
And then came the time when I have to move out of my parent’s house after 21 years for a job in another city. It was very frightening moving to a completely new location away from everything and everyone I’ve known. Not only it was geographical and cultural change, it was also the transition from a student to a professional. Food, climate, managing expenses, managing workload along with emotions were the major challenges I faced. These were the few bumps in the roads and there were lot of changes I had to make to adapt, but everything ended well as I find myself much responsible and financially independent after 2.5 years of job.
 